# Why would I want to build apps like this?

en·tro·py
/ˈentrəpē/
_noun_

1. `PHYSICS`
   a thermodynamic quantity representing the unavailability of a system's thermal energy for conversion into mechanical work, often interpreted as the degree of disorder or randomness in the system.
2. lack of order or predictability; gradual decline into disorder.

## Greek Origin

With its Greek prefix en-, meaning "within", and the trop- root here meaning "change", entropy basically means "change within (a closed system)". The closed system we usually think of when speaking of entropy (especially if we're not physicists) is the entire universe. But entropy applies to closed systems of any size. Entropy is seen when the ice in a glass of water in a warm room melts—that is, as the temperature of everything in the room evens out. In a slightly different type of entropy, a drop of food coloring in that glass of water soon spreads out evenly. However, when a nonphysicist uses the word, he or she is usually trying to describe a large-scale collapse.

## MY commentary

Armed with my GoF knowledge and countless Patterns books I consumed, I petitioned
my first boss as a professional programmer in a corporation to present Design
Patterns to our team and how we should be embracing them.  How could I lose on
this one?  This was going to be a way to make a name for myself within the team
and the organization.

His response:

> All software approaches a state of entropy over time so I don't see any point in
> Design Patterns

_«jaw drop»_

He was right.  All software does approach a state of entropy over time.

Varying architectural efforts in their own way attempt to contain and
control this entropy.  But what if we embraced it completely, and developed
our applications which expected entropy to be part of the evolution of
the application?

