# How do we embrace Entropy

3 things that lead to entropy in systems:

1. Coupling
2. Need to Scale across processes
3. Extending the concept of the application or system beyond its original intent/thesis

We need, you guessed it, 3 things (is this getting predictable yet?):

1. Comprehensive Decoupling Abstractions
1. Transparent Scalability
1. Flexible Extension Points

## Comprehensive Decoupling Abstractions

com·pre·hen·sive
/ˌkämprəˈhensiv/
_adjective_
1. complete; including all or nearly all elements or aspects of something.  
   "a comprehensive list of sources"
2. relating to understanding.

Our decoupling mechanism needs to be an abstraction that is applicable across our
entire Domain.

## slide

> Program to an interface, not an implementation.  
> - GoF - _Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software_

So much of our Interface definitions are tied to the _How_ as you can see with
multi-layered anti-corruption layers within a single environment like a web client.
Passing from one layer to the next via some abstract interface which only adds more
to the developer needing to add new functionality.

## slide again

> An interface distills the collaboration between objects. An interface is free from
> implementation details, and it defines the vocabulary of the collaboration. Once I
> understand the interfaces, I understand most of the system. Why? Because once I
> understand all the interfaces, I should be able to understand the vocabulary of the
> problem.  
> - Erich Gamma
> [A Conversation with Erich Gamma, Part III (by Bill Venners, June 6, 2005)](https://www.artima.com/lejava/articles/designprinciplesP.html)

Normally it's not my way to read quotes during a presentation, I will to be an a11y
to those who may not be able to.

So from this we can gather that it is best to focus our Interface definitions on the
_What_, and for that we will use Domain Driven Design, and the use of defining a domain
model that then becomes a Ubiquitous Language for Whole Teams, engineering and stakeholder
alike, to communicate the desires of the application.

And even better, for that Ubiquitous Language to be the very definitions of our Interfaces
that we can use for Decoupling.  Defining Interfaces in this way is comprehensive in both
of our desired ways:

1. There is no part of our system that cannot be captured using a TAO trigram
2. It's easily understood in our definition of the application and the code that implements it

Moreover, as far as interfaces go, it's
We need to define Domain Interfaces in a flexible way

When we start from Domain-Driven Design (DDD), we get a good understanding of our
application space and how our system components would interact with each other.

In traditional architectural sense, through the use of data design patterns, we can
create all kinds of interfaces that allow our implementations to vary depending
on whatever.

However, there's a lot of work involved, and the choices must be made up front, and
the more flexible the design, the more work it is to implement it as well as the
more work to implement each additional item.  We end up with layers and layers of
components that you pull your hair out on the abstractions associated with getting
data out of a database.

Let's take a step back and utilize the benefits of DDD with a metamodel that is
generic enough to capture everything within our Domain as well as invert the
message from one object sending a message to another to the message itself including
the object and the message.

The most flexible system of decoupling we have right now is Event-driven programming
where we perform our actions in reaction to events occurring in the system.

> Program to an interface, not an implementation.  
> - GoF - _Design Patterns: Elements of Reusable Object-Oriented Software_

Hardcoded interfaces (which we don't even have in JS) aren't flexible and become
brittle over time.

> An interface distills the collaboration between objects. An interface is free from
> implementation details, and it defines the vocabulary of the collaboration. Once I
> understand the interfaces, I understand most of the system. Why? Because once I
> understand all the interfaces, I should be able to understand the vocabulary of the
> problem.  
> - Erich Gamma
> [A Conversation with Erich Gamma, Part III (by Bill Venners, June 6, 2005)](https://www.artima.com/lejava/articles/designprinciplesP.html)

We want this to be true of our Domain Model, so we should create Domain Interfaces

We don't need Interfaces so much for the _How_ that most architectures we deal
with are concerned about but moreso the _What_ as that is the kind of change that
leads to entropy in our system.

## Transparent Scalability

Message-oriented architectures offer us the best example of horizontal scalability.

To take advantage of Message-oriented architecture, we need to define what our
messages will look like so both producer and consumer can be on the same page.  This
becomes our interface definition.



So let's use our meta-domain-model to remove the burden of

## Flexible Extension Points

Event-driven systems are fantastic but standard Event Emitters are limited.

In order to provide a more flexible form to use, we need to overcome a few
problems with standard Event Emitter implementations:

1. Ordering of Handlers
2. One-off Events

### One-off Events

All Event Systems provide a way to fire an event and have multiple subscribers
react to it.  However, to get the flexibility we need, we should have the
ability to dynamically chain a set of events together to form a Protocol.

Our Domain Protocol would consist of a set of trigram messages that we expect
to occur in a specific order.  We can utilize a metadata definition system
to ensure these flow.  By defining our system in this way, each Event Message
within the Protocol becomes an Extension Point.  Some Event Messages could
even exist specifically to provide an Extension Point, and by that, then an
intermediate Event Message can be inserted into the Protocol at any time
in order to gain needed functionality without disrupting working code.

The TAO provides this concept of a Path through chaining one trigram to the
next.

### Ordering of Handlers

All Event Emitter implementations allow handlers to be added, and once an
Event is raised, they are called in the order in which they were handled.

This doesn't give us the flexibility we need in our extension points, and
now we want something more that also works within our Protocol concept.

The TAO provides 3 types of handlers based on the desired needs as well
as providing control over the order in which the handlers are called:

1. Intercept - called first and have the ability to halt the Protocol chain and optionally redirect it
1. Async - called after all Intercept Handlers will be called within their own execution context - used to generate desired side-effects that should not get in the way of our normal Protocol chain
1. Inline - the expected effects of our Event Message that follow the pattern of standard event handling with the added ability to chain to another event
